Some money was deducted from my health insurance or car insurance claim
or the insurance company
rejected the entire claim. Although I feel that
my claim was absolutely correct and I should have
received the money for it, but the claim was
rejected. Now what should I do? Should
I go to social media and tell my story
or should I directly file this case in court
or should I contact a news channel
or newspaper and put my point
before them. Now,
how many chances of getting a claim from all these things are very less.
Today I am going to tell you a complete step by step
process which will not only help
you in moving your claim in the right direction but will also increase the
chances of your claim being accepted. Every
policy holder should have this information because
due to lack of this information, most of the
companies turn back even after rejecting the correct claim.
Watch the video carefully. Let's
start the video.
Money being deducted from any insurance claim or the
entire claim being rejected, this
happens in 8 or 7 cases out of every plus and it is
not necessary that the decision of the insurance company is correct every time.  If it is
true, then first of all you have to find out the reason due to which the
insurance company has
rejected your claim. Do not believe verbally
what the survey has told you, do
not believe in word of mouth, you should
take your claim rejection or claim representation letter in return. If your claim has been
partially rejected, that is,
some money has been deducted from it, then
you should also take the reason for that in return. Now first of all, let us
understand the difference between claim rejection and claim repudiation. Claim repudiation
means that as soon as you file a claim, the
company directly
rejects it completely without taking any action on it, then
it is called claim rejection.
What happens in claim reputation? When you
file a claim, the insurance company will take
action on it, will check all the documents, will do
fact check and during the action, if it
rejects your claim, then it will be
called claim reputation. Whichever of these two reasons is
your claim reputation,
you have to take that letter in return from the insurance company,
after that  You need to check
whether the insurance company rejected your claim
or whether you feel
you should have received your full claim. If the answer
is yes, you can file
your complaint with the insurance company's grievance department.
Every insurance company has a grievance
department that
handles complaints. These complaints can be related to
any department related to the insurance policy.
If you are
not happy with the claim or the service you require is
not as per your requirement, you can lodge your complaint
directly here.
You can
also lodge your complaint online on their agreements portal. You
can also write to them by email
and register your complaint by calling them.
Now, to enter these details, you need to
type the
name of your insurance company on Google
and then type grievance.
Press enter and your insurance company's
website will open, where you will find all the details of your grievances. There will
also be a link to their online complaint portal and an
email ID. Now, to lodge a
complaint here  Later, within 15 days, the
Greenwich department of the insurance company will
send you a reply back. During these 15
days, they will check whether there has been
any negligence in the process of your claim,
whether all the steps have been
followed properly or not. If you get a reply within 15 days
or not,
or if you are
not satisfied with the reply you get, you
can lodge your complaint at the escalation point, that is, the higher level Grievance Department. You will get the details of that too on the
portal itself. After filing the complaint there,
hopefully your matter will be heard
and your complaint will be resolved immediately.
Now friends, whatever complaint you
file with the Grievance Department,
what communication you sent them,
when did their reply come, its date and time,
you should have a record of all these details.
These will be very less for you in the next steps,
I will tell you about that in the next video.
Now, what is the best way for this?
You should complain to them by email.
What complaint have you made to them in the email and
their reply?  When did it arrive and what response did
they give? This record will be
saved in your email. When you need it
in the next step, you can take a printout of your email communication from there and
submit it. Now, this is step one.
If your claim is sorted out here, then
well and good. Otherwise, we move on to
step two, which is
filing a complaint with IRDA. The full form of IRDAI
is Insurance Regulatory Development
Authority of India. It is a regulatory body
that monitors all insurance companies. Just
like
RBI monitors all banks to see if all banks are operating
properly, IRDA monitors whether
all insurance companies are operating
within all the rules and regulations. It
also checks whether the
rights of any policyholder are being
exploited.
Now, you can register your complaint here as well.
How to register it? The
numbers you see on the screen are
two numbers. You
can directly register your complaint by calling here.
They also have an online portal for filing complaints.  There
is a company called Bima Bharosa, I am providing its link
in the description. You
can register your complete EDM from there. Whether you register your complaint
online or through Khel,
you have to provide the entire claim related information to the insurance company. Also,
after registering your complaint,
take the token number of your complaint so that you can
track the status of your complaint in the future.
Based on your complaint, the insurance
company instructs to check
what is the problem in this claim,
why is the policyholder getting troubled,
and which service is it that you are
not providing properly. The time limit for getting a
response is 15 days. Within 15 days,
you will
definitely get some reply from the insurance company. Congratulations, if you
get your claim here, if your query,
your complaint gets
resolved here, then it is very good, otherwise
I will take you to step number three,
which is filing your complaint.
Insurance homework  The
Insurance Ombudsman, also known as the
Insurance Ombudsman, is an alternative grievance
redressal platform that is completely
independent, meaning it is
not under any pressure from anyone. It attempts to resolve disputes between insurance companies and
policyholders.
You can bring a complaint regarding your health insurance, life
insurance, or any other
insurance matter here
and present your case.
You
can also file complaints against insurance companies, insurance brokers, or companies that sell insurance online, or brokers who provide insurance services. This is a simple,
affordable, and transparent way to
file your complaint. There are
17 Ombudsman Centers across India, which are
visible on the screen. The
first type of complaint that is resolved here is
delays in receiving a claim. If you experience delays in receiving a claim,
you can file that complaint
here. If
money is deducted from your claim or your claim is rejected,
you can also file that complaint
here if you believe that your claim has been rejected.
You can also complain here if the insurance company is creating problems with your claim by misusing the terms and conditions of its rules.
If you have paid the insurance company
and are not receiving the policy,
that complaint can also be registered here. You can also complain here if any such
activity, any such activity, which
an insurance company or broker is engaging in outside the IRDA guidelines, is being carried out.
If you are facing any problem with any service related to your policy, there
is a difference in your rates, or you feel
that the company has done something wrong to you, then
all types of complaints can be resolved by
meeting the Ombudsman. There are some conditions that must be fulfilled before complaining to the Ombudsman. The first
condition is that
before complaining to the Insurance Ombudsman,
you must complain to the insurance company,
which I have already told you in step number one.
Because it happens that in a class for small children,
if a child
misbehaves there, then it should not be taken directly to the principal;
first the class teacher will handle the matter,
then the class in-charge, and then it can be taken to the
principal.
In these cases, you cannot directly complain to the Insurance Ombudsman.
First, you will have to file a
complaint with the insurance company. If you do
not receive any response from the insurance company for a month
or if you receive a response with which you are
not satisfied, then you
can complain to the Insurance Ombudsman. The second condition is that it should
not be more than 1 year since the insurance company rejected your complaint.
Suppose I have filed a complaint with the insurance company
and I get a response
after two days, then after two days when
I received the response and when I am complaining to the Insurance Ombudsman, that
time should
not be more than 1 year old,
otherwise this complaint will not be filed in the Ombudsman right now. The
third condition is that the
claim amount should not be more than Rs 30 lakh.
If I have a term
life insurance and my nominee or
my family is claiming an
amount of ₹50 lakh, then the complaint related to that will
not be registered in the Insurance Ombudsman. And the
fourth condition is friends, whatever complaint
you are filing,
No related case should be pending in the court
because if
this matter is already under the jurisdiction of any legal body, then the Insurance
Ombudsman does not take any cognizance of it.
If you fulfill these four conditions,
then you
can register your complaint with the Insurance Ombudsman. Now I will
tell you how to register a complaint. There are
three ways to register a complaint. The
first way is online. You
can register your complaint with the Vimal Ombudsman.
I am giving you the link for that in the description. There is
no need to search for the story. The second way
is by post. You
can also write your complaint by post.
Write a complete complaint letter containing all the information related to your complaint and
send it to the nearest address of the Insurance Ombudsman. Now
you do not need to search for this address either.
I am giving you the link in the
description along with the address details of all the 17 Insurance Ombudsman centers. You can check out from there.
If your complaint is
accepted there, then they will
respond back and you will
get a form called Connection Six A.  You will have to file it
and send the documents
they have asked for along with it
and after that your work will
start and the third way is that
if the Insurance Ombudsman is in your city itself, if the
address you are seeing of 17 centers is
in your city itself, then
you can also directly go to the Insurance Ombudsman's office
physically and register your complaint, the
only thing you have to take special care is that whatever
complaint you had filed in Step One, whether it is
in the Grievance Department, at Escalation One, at
Escalation Two or at other places,
you should have a printed record of all of them
or you should have a
soft copy so that the Insurance Ombudsman can get
all the information about what
complaint you had filed and
what response the insurance company had given to it, so that on that basis he can
understand the entire complaint and
take his decision further. One thing I
find very special about Vimal Ombudsman is that within
a month of accepting your complaint,
he will talk to the insurance company and send you a reply.  He
fixes a date on which he arranges a meeting between you and him
and there
he directly settles your case by questioning and answering questions. He will give the
decision that you
should get the claim. The more
important thing is that if that decision does
not come in the insurance company's favour but if it
comes in your favour then the insurance
company will not be able to take this matter to the court
and one more thing is that if that decision
comes in the insurance company's favour
i.e. your claim is rejected then
you can definitely go to the court regarding this matter.
How fair is this method, how much
justice is visible in it from the front, so it is
possible that after reaching here
your claim will definitely get approved.
Now friends, by the time you reach here,
most of the cases get sorted out, in which there are
more chances of getting it,
those cases are
sorted out by the insurance homeworker and the
claim is given to them, but even now if
you have not received your claim then you have to go to
step number 10 which is
how to file a civil case against the insurance company.
For this you have to go to a civil court in your city.  You have to
find a good lawyer, a good advocate who is an
expert in your category of claims.
You can get that information from any of your relatives or a
friend or from someone's reference too.
We might have faced such a case before.
Now what happens is that by the time you reach the court,
you get very disappointed
because you have tried so many things to
reach here and you have
not even got a clean chit. Now see, you have tried till here, so
definitely follow this last step as well. Do
not lose courage. The second thing is that
whenever you decide with your advocate as to
how you want to
file this, then definitely clear all the terms and conditions
because the lawyer's
fees for claims cases are
in percentage. Suppose my
claim is of Rs. 10 lakh and the advocate's
free fee is 10%, so that Rs. 1 lakh becomes free, then
what will be the percentage,
fix that with your lawyer, along with at
what time this fee has to be paid and all other terms and
conditions.  You can also fix the conditions with your advocate
so that
even after getting the claim, you do not face any other problem.
So brother, these are the steps which I have
also told you which will help you a lot in your claim.
You do not do anything in small claims just like that.
Suppose, if there is a claim of 8-10 thousand, we think, let it go, friend, the phone will take action and the insurance company will chase after you and leave this claim. But this is wrong brother, think
how many such claims of 8-10 thousand go without action
and the major reason is the
lack of correct information. Through the Insurance Impact
channel, my only effort is
that every policy holder should have at least enough
awareness and information that he can
use his policy, his coverage, his rights properly.
If friends, the information given in this video has
increased your knowledge or
enhanced something, then please
like the video immediately and subscribe to the channel.
I am Bhole, Harvinder, as
always, such important and informative posts.  I will keep
bringing videos for you, I will meet you
in the next video, till then take
care of yourself, stay happy and stay healthy, Jai
Hind